---
id: 170
title: "Thank You"
perex: |
    This was an amazing year for me. I made so many things happens - I won't write about them, since you can see them on [the homepage](/) and [my Github](https://github.com/tomasvotruba/).
    <br><br>
    I want to write about you, my dear reader and contributor. **I would not make it this far without you in 2018.**
tweet: "..."
---

Thank you for discussion under the post - it often leads me to think about the topic in-depth and from different perspectives. Thank you for keeping comments constructive and creative. Thank you for sharing gists to your approach to coding.

Thank you for emoticons under the post, that way I know many of you like gifs and diffs :).

Thank you for fixing my typos and contributing to this blog. I've added "Thank you" page to make your [contributions visible](/thank-you/).  

Thank you for your comments and votes on [Reddit /php](https://www.reddit.com/r/PHP/). It gives me idea, how skilled developers from countries all over the worlds see PHP.

Thanks for amazing and warm meetups in Berlin, Vienna and Singapore. I really appreciate the place to sleepover (you know who you are) and passionate discussions.  

**Thanks to your feedback that keeps me going**. Thanks to you I could set myself for a goal to write 2 posts a week. I failed a lot in the start. I tried and I failed. But your feedback kept me on track. I saw you're into controversial topics no-one talks about, and in shorts and useful examples how to code and how not to code. And why! Without you, I would not write 96 posts this year. I've very grateful PHP community is such [a big family all over the World](https://friendsofphp.org/) and I'm happy you've made me feel welcomed. 

<br>

I'm really amazed by this, because the job of programmer is to find bugs and fix them. Find mistakes, we're biased that way. That often reflects in communication. Well, you - community around me - proved me wrong. I would like to share few of your feedbacks that kept me going even in hard time:


@todo - 10 x image

...




