README.md, before:

# [TomasVotruba.cz](https://www.tomasvotruba.cz) - [Statie](https://github.com/Symplify/Statie) based web

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://coveralls.io/github/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz?branch=master)


## Install

```sh
composer create-project tomasvotruba/website tomasvotruba.cz @dev
npm install
```

## Run the website

Now all you gotta do it move to the directory and run the gulp (see [gulpfile.js](/gulpfile.js) for more details):

```sh
cd tomasvotruba.cz
gulp
```

And open [http://localhost:8000](localhost:8000) in your browser.

That's all!


## Check The Grammar

If your English has some blind spots like mine, you can cheat with [write-good](https://github.com/btford/write-good). 

```bash
node_modules/write-good/bin/write-good.js some-file
```

E.g.

```bash
node_modules/write-good/bin/write-good.js source/_posts/2017/2017-06-17-php-object-calisthenics-rules-made-simple-version-3-0-is-out-now.md
```

Thanks [@mihaeu](https://github.com/mihaeu) for the tip!


## Check Status Code of All Links

```bash
vendor/bin/http-status-check scan https://tomasvotruba.cz
```

Commit message:

update README, use vlajos/misspell-fixer instead of the javascript one

README.md, after:

# [TomasVotruba.cz](https://www.tomasvotruba.cz) - [Statie](https://github.com/Symplify/Statie) based web

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://coveralls.io/github/TomasVotruba/tomasvotruba.cz?branch=master)


## Install

```sh
composer create-project tomasvotruba/website tomasvotruba.cz @dev
npm install
```

## Run the website

Now all you gotta do it move to the directory and run the gulp (see [gulpfile.js](/gulpfile.js) for more details):

```sh
cd tomasvotruba.cz
gulp
```

And open [http://localhost:8000](localhost:8000) in your browser.

That's all!


## Check The Grammar

With help of [vlajos/misspell-fixer](https://github.com/vlajos/misspell-fixer) package, that has thousands of rules, fixes them all for you and still - is super fast! 

```bash
# install
cd www
git clone https://github.com/vlajos/misspell-fixer
cd tomasvotruba.cz

# use
../misspell-fixer/misspell-fixer -suRVDrn source/_posts
```

## Check Status Code of All Links

```bash
vendor/bin/http-status-check scan https://tomasvotruba.cz
```
